This describes the operation of the gearchange system. It consists of five components:
1. A user-space python program.
2. An operator notification program (python).
3. A real-time hal component.
4. A g-code parser looking for spindle speed changes.
5. A portion of the pyvcp panel which serves as an operator interface.

--- TO DO ----
The spindle speed override slider in axis is integrated somehow.
The spindle acceleration in axis should be disabled.
---------------

This system has two gear-selection modes, manual and automatic. In manual mode, the operator selects the gear
from the pyvcp panel. An LED on that panel indicates whether the selected spindle
speed is within range of the selected gear. In automatic mode the gear is selected based on motor
characteristics, and the panel shows what's going on.

-----------------------
The pyvcp panel has the following buttons and indicators:
1. A checkbox to select manual (vs automatic) gear selection. Cannot be changed when a program
is running.
2. A set of radio buttons (or drop-down box) to select the gear, when in manual mode. This is greyed out but shows the 
selected gear when in automatic mode.
3. A checkbox to select manual spindle speed control (vs. program control).
3. A spinbox to set spindle speed when in manual mode. Greyed out but shows spindle speed when in
automatic mode.
4. An LED to show when the manually-selected spindle speed is out of range for the selected gear.
5. An LED to show when the motor speed is being limited. This can happen if the motor speed was
close to its limit and the axis spindle speed slider was moved.

-----------------------
The user-space python program:

1. When the system is in automatic mode, the user-space python program  When found, it does the following:

	A. Manual speed setting is used when use-man-speed is TRUE. Otherwise,
spindle speed is determined from motion.

	B. Manual gear-setting mode is determined by the state of the use-man-gear
input pin. Otherwise, the needed gear is calculated.

	C. In automatic spindle-speed mode, monitors for spindle-speed changes. A
speed change is determined when the ratio of motion.spindle-speed-out to
halui.spindle-override.value is stable for two or more consecutive cycles, but
is different by more than 0.1% from the previous ratio. This allows changes to
the spindle override to be made without changing gears (but still subject to
motor speed limits). If the ratio is stable but has changed by more than 0.1%
from the previous stable value, the new speed is evaluated for possibly needing
a gear change.

	D. In manual spindle speed mode, a new speed is accepted when the
mspeed-set input is TRUE and mspeed-in is different than the last time
mspeed-set was TRUE.

	E. When a new spindle speed is seen, a determination is made whether it can
be accommodated with the current gear setting (keeping the motor between min
and max). If so, no gear change is called for and the motor speed is adjusted
to meet the new speed.

	F. If the new spindle speed cannot be accommodated and the gear setting is
in manual mode, a dialog advises the user of such and asks if they want to
change gears. The dialog also indicates what the nearest speed is that can be
made using the same gear, keeping the limits of motor speed.

	G. If the operator answer YES (change gears), the spindle is stopped and
the gear change dialog for the needed gear is presented. The spindle is then
started with the new motor speed.

	H. If the answer is NO (keep the old gear), the motor speed is changed to
the limit that produces a spindle speed closest to what is needed and the
mspeed-limit output is set TRUE.

	I. If in automatic mode, it determines whether a gear change is necessary
by evaluating the new spindle speed request against motor speed ranges and gear
ratios. If the new spindle speed is zero, no gear change is performed.

	C. If the spindle speed request is out of range of the machine in any gear,
it presents a dialog asking the user whether to use the closest avaiable
machine speed. If the user agrees, continues that way. If not, halts the
program.

	E. When speed is zero, issues an operator prompt to change the gear.

	F. If the operator acknowledges the gear change, sets the motor speed to
the new setting. If the operator requests to revert to manual spindle control,
sets the appropriate hal pins and continues in manual mode.
	
	Input pins are:
		sspeed-in  -- desired spindle speed in RPM from motion
		mspeed-in -- manual spindle speed in RPM from operator via pyvcp
		use-man-speed -- use operator spindle speed (vs from axis), from pyvcp
		mspeed-set -- set mspeed-in as the new requested speed
		use-man-gear -- use operator-selected gear, from pyvcp
		gear-no -- operator specified gear number (1-10), from pyvcp
		enable-in -- spindle enable from motion
		is-stopped -- stopped indication from spindlemotor.comp
		override-in -- spindle speed override, from halui
		
	Output pins are:
		gear-no-out -- gear number in use, to pyvcp
		gear-ratio-out -- ratio of gear in use, to spindlemotor.comp
		motor-speed-out -- Motor speed in RPM (pos == CW, neg == CCW) to 
			spindlemotor.comp
		enable-out -- spindle enable output to spindlemotor.comp
		sspeed-error -- spindle speed error?
		mspeed-limit -- motor speed is being limited

	Input parameters are
		ratio-gear1 -- ratio for gear 1
		ratio-gear2 -- ratio for gear 2
		ratio-gear3 -- ratio for gear 3
		ratio-gear4 -- ratio for gear 4
		ratio-gear5 -- ratio for gear 5
		ratio-gear6 -- ratio for gear 6
		ratio-gear7 -- ratio for gear 7
		ratio-gear8 -- ratio for gear 8
		ratio-gear9 -- ratio for gear 9
		ratio-gear10 -- ratio for gear 10
		motor-max -- maximum motor rpm
		motor-min -- minimum motor rpm
		motor-nom -- nominal motor rpm
	
2. When the program is in manual mode, it scales spindle speed commands by the
	manually-selected gear ratio and passes these on as motor speed. If the spindle
	speed and gear would put the motor speed out of range, the motor speed is
	limited and the motor-speed-limited hal pin is set.

-----------------------
The real-time hal component handles motor acceleration and deceleration limiting, sets the forward and
reverse hal pins for the VFD, sets the BRAKE hal pin, determines at-speed and zero-speed, and
scales spindle-revs and spindle-speed from the motor encoder.

-----------------------
The operator notification program displays the appropriate graphic and message to the operator to change
gears, and asks whether to go to manual spindle control mode. Returns an exit code depending on the 
operator response.

-----------------------
The g-code parser looks at the program to be run and tallys any gear changes necessary. It gets the 
number of gears and gear ratios from the appropriate hal signals. It displays the tally of
gear changes needed in the upcoming gcode program and, if no spindle speed settings are found, 
notifies the operator that he will need to use manual spindle speed control.

